# CPTR480 Labs & Projects

## [Lab 01:](https://gitlab.cs.wallawalla.edu/janset/student480/-/tree/Lab01?ref_type=tags)
 - Question 2 Answer:
   > The PIT is still running based on the peripheral register view. After getting to the end of the handler via step over/step into the debugger loses all information (about variables, the stack, registers, etc.) but the process is still paused somewhere outside of what is visible. I watched that ```g_pitTicks``` is incremented (as expected) after every continue. When watching a random ```int``` that I added to main it behaved as expected but I was unable to watch it while I was in some other scope--such as when inside the PIT interrupt handler.
 - Question 4 Answer:
   > The debugger behaved as expected (after realizing that I had to stop it, build, and start it again for changes to take affect). It was very useful for finding the values a variables. For instance, it helped me realize that I had 'S' and 'T' swapped in my morse code LUT. I did not use it to check what was actually going to be sent (via ```readNextMorseStringBit()```) to the GPIO, but rather check ahead of time the array that would eventually be output--easier than fighting with the PIT timing.

## [Lab 02:](https://gitlab.cs.wallawalla.edu/janset/student480/-/tree/Lab02?ref_type=tags)

## [Lab 03:](https://gitlab.cs.wallawalla.edu/janset/student480/-/tree/Lab03?ref_type=tags)
 - Step 1 Computations:
   > - Duty Cycle:
   >   - Edge-aligned: ```CnV/(MOD+1)```
   >   - Center-aligned: ```CnV/MOD```
   > - Frequency:
   >   - Edge-aligned: ```48MHz/prescalerDivisor/(MOD+1)```
   >   - Center-aligned: ```48MHz/prescalerDivisor/2/MOD```
 - Question 2 Answers:
   > Can make the high frequency noise basically disappear on the PWM DAC implementation if the PWM frequency is high enough. The noise is still quite apparent at 1kHz, but at 10kHz it is only about 20mV pk-pk. At a frequency of 100kHz can't discern the noise besides the edge-effects which remain at many mV. However, increasing the frequency has the drawback of reducing the voltage resolution. This is because higher frequencies require lower ```MOD``` values, which limit the range of ```CnV``` values that do not correspond to 100% duty cycle.
 - 3 LED Flicker Notes:
   > In order to have as much resolution as possible I want to fill (or close to it) the ```MOD``` register, but I will change the ```prescaleDivisor``` as slow as possible while still not seeing any flicker. At about 92Hz the flicker is gone unless I move it around, then I might be able to see it. At about 184Hz it is completly gone. I will aim for 184Hz with a ```prescaleDivisor``` of 4.
 - Question 5 Answer:
   > I found that a PIT interrupt frequency from 10-20Hz appears to cause smooth fading. I will choose 17Hz (it is quite smooth, but doesn't cycle too fast).
 - Final Implementation Notes:
   > Originally I had created a TPM driver where I could change the ```CnV``` value by specifying a duty cycle "percentage" from 0-10000 (0-100.00%). While this mostly worked with an exponential fade, it did not work well with the squaring implementation of gamma correction. In order to address this I added a way of setting ```CnV``` directly with the TPM driver. Also I decided to keep the RED LED pulsing effect as an option, but I (for some reason) preferred the exponential effect rather than the (seemingly) linear transition--the exponential effect was too fast for color cycling. Because of this my ```LED``` class supports both exponential pulsing and linear cycling.

## [Lab 04:](https://gitlab.cs.wallawalla.edu/janset/student480/-/tree/Lab04?ref_type=tags)
  - Design Decisions: Step by Step:
    > **```DGPIO```:** In the last lab I had extended ```DGPIO``` to handle alternate pin muxing modes. This lab I extended on this to enable interrupt modes. Now, ```DGPIO``` has its generic handler which will check which pin caused the interrupt (it keeps a list of interruptable pins), calling the appropriate handler (via callbacks), and finally clearing flags. Using callbacks was a fun idea but a bit of a headache as it does require static class functions (or, generally, functions not belonging to an object instance). Now that I know this, this shouldn't be too bad; and I like the flexibility.

    > **```DTPM```:** My previous implementation needed no changes for this lab, besides not enabling the green LED and initializing everything to 0% duty cycle.

    > **```DUART```:** My previous implementation was mostly good enough, however I added a new method ```sendInt()``` which uses ```int2str()``` to send an ```int``` as ASCII over UART0. I did refactor ```int2str()``` a bit to remove the library includes and to include null termination. In general I like simply null termination for this, but for this particular use I do a bit of extra manipulation to terminate with "\n\0".

    > **```DROTENC```:** This class is new to handle the rotary encoder. It uses an internal state machine to handle the position changes, as well as includes increment, decrement, control, reset, and get methods. It also prints the current position at each change via UART0. This class is also a static class, in that all methods are static class methods and that an instance cannot be created. I consider this to be "proper" as there is only one rotary encoder, plus this better supports the callback restrictions previously mentioned. Thus there is no global ```g_rotenc``` instance that needs to be made, everything happens directly on the class.

  - Challenges, Bugs, and Solutions:
    > For this lab everything worked *exactly* according to my code. This includes the ```HardFaults``` that were generated by enabling interrupts on the port pins. This happened because I initially enabled interrupts on the pins before the rest of the GPIO configuration (PU/PD, In/Out) which led to an interrupt being generated on ```init()``` even after clearing the ```ISF``` registers, which led to a handler being called which expected other peripherals to be clocked that were not yet. I addressed this by enabling pin interrupts after the rest of the GPIO configuration in ```DGPIO::init()```, and by initializing ```g_gpio``` after the other peripherals.

    > Another challenge I ran into was the use of callbacks for interrupt handlers. It is great in theory, however instance methods cannot be used (easily) with callbacks. The best solution was to use static methods, however I did not realize this until I had already designed the whole class which had the handlers reference other instance methods (Which they could not do if static). My solution to this was to make the entire ```DROTENC``` class static -- as discussed in the 'Design Decisions' section above.

  - For some fun with the LED Bar checkout [3-fun](https://gitlab.cs.wallawalla.edu/janset/student480/-/tree/3-fun?ref_type=heads). Note that this is a very rough implementation that I did on a whim. Also requires ~2.5A externally.

## [Lab 05:](https://gitlab.cs.wallawalla.edu/janset/student480/-/tree/Lab05?ref_type=tags)
  - Design Notes:
    > Now all classes are static with ```_init``` flags so that each peripheral could be initialized in different places without needing to worry about accidentally doing the same initialization twice. ```DGPIO``` is again used to pin muxing, now with SPI1 pins to the LSM6DSL. The new ```DSPI``` driver class handles SPI generically in master, 4-wire mode with Tx/Rx support of up to 13 bytes (for future use of reading accelerometer/gyro values). ```DMOTION``` utilizes the ```DSPI``` class with setup (coming soon) for the LSM6DSL and basic ```_readReg()```(with support for reading multiple registers sequentially (when "rounding" is enabled)) and ```_writeReg``` private functions. Currently functionality only supports ```probe()``` (implemented as blocking) to check for the "whoami" register, however the classes have been designed with future functionality in mind (see Lab 06). Also, I implemented a ```sleep()``` function with ```DPIT``` in order to wait ~15ms for the LSM6DSL to power up before reading/writing to it.

  - Challenges, Bugs, Solutions, and Working with the Logic Analyzer:
    > Because I wanted a generic ```DSPI``` class, I wanted to be able to support both SPI1 and SPI0 (even though that is unnecessary for this lab), this created a bit of an issue with baud rates because the input clock is different between the two modules. In order to address this the driver supports some predefined baud rates which can be easily adjusted at runtime to support the different SPI modules.

    > In the past I have used switch statements in order to initialize different modules of the same peripheral (such as TPM1 vs TPM2). This time I tried to avoid switch statements by calculating the correct register address ahead of time and then using that to initialize/configure/read/write/etc. This created some issues however as originally I was using a peripheral pointer type (such as ```SPI_Type *```) and adding an ```unsigned int``` to it, however this did not perform the addition as I was expected. I realized that I needed to use one of the peripheral "bases" and then typecast later in order for the math to be performed correctly. This issue originally prevented any modules from being configured, and took a bunch of debug stepping and test variables to figure out.

    > Once I got the SPI peripheral enabled I was getting unsuccessful probes. This was addressed with the logic analyzer (once I figured out to only take ~50 samples at 2MHz using the SPI protocol setting). I saw that my SPI modes were correct, and I was indeed sending a read command to the "whoami" address, however I was not clocking long enough to read a response. This was because my ```_readReg()``` function takes a length as the number of registers to read, and I was passing it directly to ```TxRx()``` which takes a length as the number of bytes to send/receive. So it was an off-by-one error. Also using the analyzer, I saw that the CC pin was never raised again after the transmission finished, despite having created a handler for this. It turned out that I never passed the function as a callback--this was easily fixed. I also see with the analyzer that my CC line is changing roughly 6us before and after my actual transmission (I am SPI clocking at 1MHz by the way). Currently this has not been addressed, but might cause timeline-related issues in the future (I am not sure, but it is worth noting).

## [Lab 06:](https://gitlab.cs.wallawalla.edu/janset/student480/-/tree/Lab06?ref_type=tags)
  - Design Notes:
    > My deisgn Lab 05 mostly incorporated all the read/write logic I ndeed for communicating with the LSM6DSL. The only communication logic I added was private ```_readRegBlocking()``` and ```_writeRegBlocking()``` support to improve the initialization sequence as well as to help with debugging. I also added accelerometer and gyroscope data storage, optional UART-based logging, ```enum``` values for different LSM6DSL registers/addresses, and LSM6DSL interrupt handlers (although only one should be used at the moment). The data of the accel/gyro is stored as signed shorts to match the 16-bit 2's complement data of the LSM6DSL. 

    > Now during ```DMOTION``` initialization, the LSM6DSL is reset, probed (which adds roughly enough delay for the reset to complete), and configured. My configuration sets the ODR of the gyroscope and accelerometer to matching rates (for synchronization) (currently 26Hz for testing), enabled BDU to ensure high/low bytes correspond to the same sample, and enabled interrupts for both gryo and accel on INT1. "Rounding" is not configured as I found that the addresses automatically increment (by default) on multi-byte reads -- all rounding does is return to the first address to read over again, which is not necessary here. Once configuration is complete, the first set of data is pulled (if necessary) in order to begin automatic interrupt-driven data reception.

    > SPI communication now occurs at 4MHz because my prior plan of 6MHz seemed to lose some data on reception causing my implementation to hang on a blocking write.

  - Challenges, Bugs, and Solutions:
    > The first challenge was to figure out what I needed to configure on the LSM6DSL, however the lab handout already mentioned BDU and ODR so I didn't have to think too much about that. Figuring out how exactly to configure the interrupts took a bit more work (signals being not labeled correctly did not help). Once I figured out what I wanted to configure, I needed to figure out what the defaults values were for registers because I cannout use ```|=``` like I can with the KL25. Luckily most registers default to 0.

    > The thing I struggled with the most was getting interrupts to work. At first nothing seemed to happen. And then when I eventually made progress (by probing with the logic analyzer) I discovered that the interrupts were being generated on INT1 when I expected INT2 or vice versa. Realizing that the port pins on the schematic were incorrectly labeled fixed this issue. One thing to note: I still am not sure what ```INT2_ON_INT1``` on ```CTRL4_C``` does.

    > I also had some issues with seemingly-random behavior, however I realized that the LSM6DSL does not reset like the KL25 does when resetting the debugger. Thus, old configuration attempts were interfering with what I was trying. First reseting the LSM6DSL as part of my initialization sequence resolved this.

    > The final challenge I encountered was having an INT1 interrupt *interrupt* my initialization sequence causing a read to occur before I had finished configuring the device. This was easily fixed by keeping the initalization order: reset -> probe -> ODR -> BDU -> interrupts (last). Though, I added a bit of extra logic to my driver to ensure this cannot happen even with an improper init sequence.

## [Lab 08:](https://gitlab.cs.wallawalla.edu/janset/student480/-/tree/Lab08?ref_type=tags)
  - Design Notes:
    > This design follows my previous driver class designs. All stuff specific to the DMA and DMAMUX are defined/configured by the ```DDMA``` class. This is also a static class. Peripherals that interact with the DMA have to be initialized/enabled elsehwere beforehand. This is a similar philosophy to how I have modified the ```DGPIO``` driver to initialize pins in the PORTs to be used with alternative mux peripherals elsewhere. Here, the GPIO pins are still initialized via ```DGPIO``` in order to keep everything organized. Furthermore, the TPM DMA configurations were added to ```DTPM``` to keep all TPM configuration organized.

    > There are quite a bit more functionalities of the DMA module that are possible, but are not used for this lab. In order to minimize my reliance on the KL25 manual many of the relevant (and possibly relevant) values are all defined using ```enum```s, and the ```DDMA``` class outlines everything in ```dmaConfigurations[]``` which I may want to use in the future---some things are not included (such as SPI triggers) however to avoid overcomplicated the implementation. I also included some helper functions related to starting and stopping the DMA, as well as changing the source and destination addresses at runtime. While none of these functions are used as part of this lab, I figured they may be helpful for the project and were simple enough to implement now.

    > As for actually generating a waveform for this lab, I began by doubling the desired frequency to be used with a TPM DMA trigger---this allows a bit for the rising and falling edges of the waveform. Because only 5 signals were required, I configured the DMA to use a minimum block size of 1 byte (which worked for writing to the lower byte of GPIO PDOR). Also, since the waveform repeates after 8 clocks, I used a 16 byte source modulo (2 bytes per clock) to loop through the pattern as many times as DMA BCR would allow (0xFFFF0) before needing the restart via a DMA interrupt. Due to timing concerns, I made the interrupt handler "fairly" lightweight (no valid address constraint checking) as well as ensured I reset BCR before reenabling ERQ---this prevents an trigger happening before BCR is set which would lead to a configuration error due to 0 BCR (Jaron and I worked together at finding this issue).
